Merging in Git is process of combining changes from different branches of a code repository. Imagine you are working on
a project with your teammates, and each person is assigned a separate branch to work on their own changes.

When you merge branches in Git you are bringing those changes made in different branches into a one branch, typically main
branch.
This allows everyone's work come together and become part of the main project.

Here is simple example of merging process in Git:

1. Create branches: each person in team creates each branch to work on their own changes. This allows them to work
independently without interfering in each other's work.

2. Make changes: every one edit the code, make enhancements to the code in their branch, add and delete files and fix
any bugs are found. Each branch contains separate set of changes.

3. Merge branches: When some one completed their work and want to incorporate their work with main project, they merge
their branch with main branch(eg. master). This combines their code changes with existing codebase.

4. Conflict resolutions: Sometimes Git encounters conflicts when merging branches. Conflicts happen when two or more
people change the same lines of code. Git prompt the user to resolve these conflicts manually by choosing which changes
want to keep or modify the code to combine the changes.

5. Commit the merge: Once the conflicts are resolved, Git creates a merge commit. This commit represents the integration
of the changes from the branch being merged into the main branch. It captures both original commit history and the new
changes.

-------------------------------------------

Pavan

In Git we have two types of merges fast-forward and three way merge.

Where fast-forward merge is type of merge that merging feature branch with master branch without adding new commits to
the master branch.

The three way merge is type of merge where commits in master and feature branch will be done simultaneously where
the Git will create merge commit while performing three way merge.

Merge commit is process of tracking commits of two branches master and merging branch from common ancestor commit and
perform merging the branch by adding all changes done in both branches.

